If you are a new player, you can ignore this page. It contains no truly useful information, and you shouldn't bother reading it unless you are interested in how big the world is.

Contents
1 Introduction
2 List of all spatial measurements of scale
3 Why interstellar space and planetary space distances are different
4 Speeds of ships
5 Conclusion
Introduction
Obviously, in game or from the map the scale of things isn't quite right. You could build a ship that seems bigger than an entire planet in space in one direction, but if you enter the atmosphere it might be smaller than a single mountain on the surface. When you're in space what you see isn't an accurate representation of reality. The planets appear far to small in comparison to the starships, and the stars appear far to small in comparison to the planets. To explain this, 1 block of volume of one object is different from one block of volume of another. There is also a difference in scale between one block of distance and one block of an object. For example, each block of a ship is only a meter in length, however, a block of distance in interstellar space is approximately 946 million kilometers.

Another apparent issue is that if one block is equal to a meter on a planet's surface, then each planet is only a 5 kilometer by 5 kilometer square in surface area. This isn't actually the case though, that would be far too small for a realistic planet with the gravity of the worlds in Star Legacy's Andromeda 7b Sector, which includes all the systems in the game. The explanation for this is that only a small portion of each world has been terraformed to have habitable environments. Obviously, it would be extremely unlikely that these many habitable planets would naturally occur so close together, terraforming is the only way this was possible. This brings up the question, "Why are ships so slow on planets compared to in space?" There are a few reasons for this, the main being because of the atmosphere. If ships were to move at even a fraction of their far faster than light speeds on a planet's surface they would instantly burn up and explode because of the heat generated by friction with the atmosphere. Though shield technology is advanced, it can only protect a ship from extremely small particles moving very fast relative to the ship on impact, and from the small scale explosive power of other ships for a short period of time, nothing even close to the amount of energy required to protect from that much heat.

List of all spatial measurements of scale
One block represents a different sized object based on the scenario. This is a list of how big a block is:

- One block on a ship = 1 meter

- One block on a planet's surface = 1 meter

- One block inside an ecostation = 1 meter

- One block of distance in interstellar space = 946,073,047 kilometers

- One block of distance inside systems = ~180,000 kilometers

- One block of a planet in space = ~108 kilometers

- One block of a star in space = ~5520 kilometers

Why interstellar space and planetary space distances are different
Assuming the star systems are all a few light years apart, it was easy to approximate 10,000 blocks to a lightyear, though realisticaly it would probably be more like 8,000 considering the distances. Regardless, if this was applied to the distances between planets and the stars in the star systems, the distances would be way too large. In our solar system, we measure distances in Astronomical Units, the distance between the Earth and the Sun. One AU is approximately 150 million kilometers. remember, 1 block in interstellar space is about 946 million kilometers, so if the scale was the same in star systems, each planet would have to be less than a block away from the star to be habitable, assuming the stars have a similar size to our Sun. if we calculate scale based on the distances of planets from the star, it seems much more reasonable at around 180,000 kilometers to the block than more than 900 million. That was based on the distance from the star to the closest planets in each solar system being about 600 blocks, and then assuming that would be similar to Venus in distance. I say Venus rather than Mercury because Venus is a far more Earth-like planet in our own solar system than Mercury, and considering only habitable planets appear in each system, we can assume that any rocky planets too close to the sun, or gas/ ice giants are simply not shown.

Speeds of ships
Knowing these sizes, we can calculate the speed that ships move, both on land and in space. In our calculations, we will keep in mind that a day in Minecraft is only 20 minutes in reality. This means that if a ship is moving at 10 blocks a second in our time, or 600 blocks a minute, an average speed for a ship to cruise at, it is moving at 12,000 blocks a minecraft day. In interstellar space that is 11,352,876,564,000 (More than 11 trillion) kilometers a day, a bit more than a light year a day. In kilometers an hour that is 473,036,523,500 (473 billion) kilometers an hour. As a comparison, the speed of light is 1,079,252,848.8 kilometers an hour, meaning that ships traveling between systems in real space cruising at 10 blocks a second are going 438.3 times the speed of light., the supposed speed limit of the universe. If we were measuring time in game the same as time in real life, where an in game day is 24 hours, then ships would be going 31,557.6 times faster than the speed of light!

In systems and on planets, ships move quite a bit slower than in interstellar space. Within star systems, ships move at about 2,160,000,000 kilometers a day (remember, I mean an in game day, so 20 minutes from your perspective), or 90,000,000 kilometers an hour. This means that though in interstellar space ships travel far faster than the speed of light, inside systems they travel only about 1/11th the speed of light, by in game time. By our time (where a day is 24 hours) ships are still a few times faster than the speed of light. On planets, ships are even slower. 12,000 blocks an in game day on a planet is only 12,000 meters a day, or 12 kilometers a day. That is only half a kilometer an hour, by in game time. By time in real life, it is 36 kilometers an hour, so still not even that fast compared to a car.

Conclusion
Basically, distances are different per block depending on the location, but ships go at the same speed per block everywhere, meaning that ships go far faster in some areas, such as interstellar space than other areas. There are explanations for this, such as it not being safe to travel faster than light in populated areas in case of collision and because of atmosphere getting in the way, but the difference is quite drastic. Regardless of this all, none of it really affects gameplay, so if you want you can just disregard everything you just read.